THE HENDERSON REPORT

What follows is a report by an SOC operative known only by his alias as Mr. Henderson, the agent who was allegedly aboard the GTCv Stargazer that narrowly escaped the Deneb system.

------------------ 

'Here is a summary of the intelligence I have gathered during my covert stay deep within the heart of the pirate syndicate, all of which are itemized and archived in an encrypted data crystal to be delivered to the Galactic Terran-Vasudan Intelligence. My infiltration eight months ago was effective. Disguised as an independent smuggler in Deneb, I was taken into their ranks and later promoted as one of their commanders and personal confidant to the supreme leader himself. The success of my cover was due to my severing any contact with headquarters for the duration of my mission. Any transmission even the secured ones would be easily intercepted and coded messages or code speak would only provoke their suspicions.' 
     
'The military capability of the United Pirate Coalition is substantial with control over a hundred war vessels including modified corvettes and refitted Orion destroyers. Their overall fleet size had expanded considerably within a few months since their blitzkrieg invasion of Deneb. The rapid construction and deployment of assets was attributed to the fact that they had constructed quite a number of orbital shipyards and weapons manufacturing stations all over the system and bulk purchases of warships through back-channeling meaning they acquired these decommissioned ships from private firms who bought them from the military. The population of the planets Helios and Secunda were subjected to slavery and forced into heavy labor in these erected installations. The details under this subject are included in a separate category in my report. The important part of this summary which I slightly elaborated here is the information of how the UPC came into existence.' 

'Contrary to the conclusion of the GTVA High Council, formerly the Security Council, that the Neo-Terran Front was completely disbanded, the last remnant of the insurgents went into seclusion deep in the recesses of a hazardous asteroid field somewhere in the outer rim of the Altair system where no destroyer or corvette dare venture. The NTF who had already lost all of its glory became the greatest threat to the alliance since the Second Shivan Invasion and the credit goes to one man.' 
     
'Admiral Boris Renasky, being the only high ranking commander left after the death of Admiral Koff and the disappearance of Admiral Bosch, took command of the NTF which was already demoralized after their utter defeat in Epsilon Pegasi. Most of its combatants had contemplated of surrendering to the GTVA. It was only through his strategic leadership skill combined with his oratorical prowess that he was able to hold his wayward soldiers together and prevented the total collapse of the NTF.' 
     
'Whatever principles of which the Neo-Terran Front was formed, the rebellion can never push through with it. The oaths taken by its loyal members can no longer be fulfilled and Bosch's dream was nothing more than a reverie. Seeing that their political agenda cannot be imposed through might and will, Boris Renasky conceded that the NTF's ultimate purpose was long gone. They have to evolve somehow. So the Admiral resorted to means that even Bosch would adamantly disagree. His followers and soldiers, fueled by either revenge or just plain, blunt hatred toward the GTVA were unanimous to this new course of action. Through meandering channels and twisting connections, Boris was able to meet with several crime lords from different parts of GTVA space. He parleyed agreements, negotiated deals and, finally, persuaded all of them to unite into one highly organized crime syndicate. Given Renasky's reputation as the leader of a once formidable rebellious faction, he was the obvious choice to lead them. The Neo-Terran Front have re-branded themselves as the United Pirate Coalition.